<!-- Delete the sections that don't apply -->

### Backwards-incompatible changes

-

### New features

- For embedding a redoc page for API documentation, Documenteer now provides its own `documenteer.ext.redoc` extension. This replaces the previous `sphinxcontrib.redoc` extension, which is not being actively maintained. This new extension is automatically configured through `documenteer.conf.guide`, and therefore should not require any changes for most user guide projects. `documenteer.ext.redoc` drops support for referencing an OpenAPI specification file from a web URL. FastAPI projects can use `documenteer.ext.openapi` to generate an OpenAPI specification file from the FastAPI app.

- In Markdown content for technotes and guides, Mermaid diagrams can now be written in code fences using the `mermaid` language tag. This is also supported in GitHub's Markdown renderer. The traditional method of using the `mermaid` directive syntax is still supported.

- Documenteer's `technote` and `guide` configurations now ignore pending Sphinx API deprecation warnings by default. This is to prevent the warnings from cluttering the build output, and are only useful for the Documenteer developers since the Sphinx version is constrained by Documenteer.

### Bug fixes

-

### Other changes

- Documenteer no longer depends on setuptools as a runtime dependency thanks to pybtex version 0.25 and `documenteer.ext.redoc`.

- Documenteer's Sphinx extensions now provide proper extension metadata to support version-based cache busting and parallel builds.
